Here are the top ten general tools used by cybersecurity pros, and the guys they go up against.

1 – Metasploit Framework

The tool that turned hacking into a commodity when it was released in 2003, the Metasploit Framework made cracking known
vulnerabilities as easy as point and click. Although sold as (and used by white hats) as a penetration testing tool, Metasploit’s
free version is still where most neophyte hackers cut their teeth. With downloadable modules allowing any combination of exploit and 
executable payload, all freely available, hackers have instant access to any system showing one of nearly 2000 cataloged vulnerabilities. Sophisticated anti-forensic and stealth tools make the package complete.

2 – Nmap

Nmap, or Network Mapper, is 20 years old, but remains one of the most flexible, powerful, and useful tools in the network security 
analysts toolkit. Nmap can bounce TCP and UDP packets around your network like a pinball wizard, identifying hosts, scanning for open 
ports, and slicing open misconfigured firewalls to show you what devices are open for business on your network… whether you put them 
there or someone else did. Nmap has been around so long that it has collected a constellation of helper tools such as the Zenmap GUI,
Ncat debugging tool, and Nping packet generator.

3 – OpenSSH

OpenSSH is a suite of low-level tools that rights many of the wrongs built into the original network-level utilities in most Internet 
operating systems. Created as an integral part of the bulletproof OpenBSD UNIX implementation, OpenSSH was useful enough and solid
enough that it was quickly adopted by other UNIX forks and made available as portable packages for other operating systems. The
encryption and tunneling capabilities of the OpenSSH utilities are taken for granted by most users, but security professionals need 
to know how to build secure systems on top of reliable OpenSSH tools.

4 – Wireshark

Wireshark is the de facto standard in network protocol analysis tools. It allows deep inspection and analysis of packets from hundreds
of different protocols, from the ubiquitous TCP to the exotic CSLIP. With built-in decryption support for many encrypted protocols and 
powerful filtering and display capabilities, Wireshark can help you dive deep in current activity on your network and expose nefariously
crafted attacks in real time.

5 – Nessus

Nessus is the world’s most popular vulnerability scanner, a battle-scarred champion that has held that throne for decades even as new 
challengers have crowded the arena in recent years. Automated compliance scans can handle everything from password auditing to
patch-level compliance across your network, with reports that immediately draw attention to open vulnerabilities. Nessus can integrate
with Nmap to take advantage of advanced port-scanning capabilities and with other management tools to form an integral part of your
network security system.

6 – Aircrack-ng

Aircrack is your go-to tool for wifi hacking—still one of the most vulnerable aspects of most commercial networks. Weak wireless 
encryption protocols are easily shattered by Aircrack’s WEP and WPA attacks. Sophisticated deauthentication and fake access point
attacks allow you to probe your security aggressively. Packet sniffing capabilities allow you to simply snoop and keep an eye on 
traffic even without making overt attacks. No wireless network security staff should be without a copy of Aircrack-ng.

7 – Snort

Snort provides network intrusion detection that performs real-time traffic analysis and packet logging on your network. Using rulesets 
that are updated daily, Snort matches patterns against known attack signatures and alerts you to potential assaults. The system can be 
configured to trigger even on less openly nefarious activity, such as Nmap stealth port scans or operating system fingerprinting attempts.

8 – John the Ripper

John the Ripper is a fast password cracker with a lot of features that make it a breeze for slashing through your password files. It auto 
detects hash types to take the guesswork out of the attack and supports several popular encryption formats including DES, MD5, and 
Blowfish. It hits Unix, Kerberos, and Windows LanManager passwords equally hard using either dictionary or brute force attacks.
If you haven’t checked your password hashes against John yet, you can be sure that some hacker out there will do it for you soon.

9 – Google

If this one seems a little trite to you, think again. Sure, Google is everybody’s go-to when it’s time to research a virus or turn 
up that RFP you’re looking for. Your job would be a nightmare without it. But Google is also sitting on top of one of the biggest 
near-real-time vulnerability databases of all time, including potential holes in your servers. Google-hacking uses search tools to
explore the Google index for misconfigured Web services or illicit documents that have leaked outside your firewall. Configure you
r search string properly, and you have instant access to lists of open web shares at your IP address, misconfigured password pages,
exposed internal file shares you never dreamed were unprotected. Sure, you have all the same information internally—but when you 
look at it through Google, you’re seeing it through the eyes of your adversary. You might be surprised what it shows.

10 – L0phtCrack

Something you’ll notice in the technology business is that eventually everything old becomes new again. Timesharing minicomputers are
reincarnated as client-server architecture, non-relational databases are reborn as NoSQL, and the venerable L0phtCrack, one of the
first effective password crackers, is reincarnated in modern form. Originally emerging from the fabled L0pht Heavy Industries hacking 
collective in the 1990s, the tool was abandoned after a series of mergers left it in Symantec’s hands. But in 2009, original authors
and legends of cybersecurity Mudge, Weld Pond, and DilDog re-acquired the IP and revamped the old girl. With multi-core and multi-GPU 
support, 64-bit architecture, and advanced rainbow table precomputed hash capabilities, L0phtCrack can once again take on jobs John
the Ripper can’t hack.
