Tree represents the nodes connected by edges. We will discuss binary tree or binary search tree specifically.
Binary Tree is a special datastructure used for data storage purposes. A binary tree has a special condition that each node can have a 
maximum of two children. A binary tree has the benefits of both an ordered array and a linked list as search is as quick as in a sorted
array and insertion or deletion operation are as fast as in linked list.

Important Terms
Following are the important terms with respect to tree.

Path − Path refers to the sequence of nodes along the edges of a tree.

Root − The node at the top of the tree is called root. There is only one root per tree and one path from the root node to any node.

Parent − Any node except the root node has one edge upward to a node called parent.

Child − The node below a given node connected by its edge downward is called its child node.

Leaf − The node which does not have any child node is called the leaf node.

Subtree − Subtree represents the descendants of a node.

Visiting − Visiting refers to checking the value of a node when control is on the node.

Traversing − Traversing means passing through nodes in a specific order.

Levels − Level of a node represents the generation of a node. If the root node is at level 0, then its next child node is at level 1, 
its grandchild is at level 2, and so on.

keys − Key represents a value of a node based on which a search operation is to be carried out for a node.

Here are some properties of trees:

The top-most node is called root.
A node without children is called leaf node or terminal node.
Height (h) of the tree is the distance (edge count) between the farthest leaf to the root.
A has a height of 3
I has a height of 0
Depth or level of a node is the distance between the root and the node in question.
H has a depth of 2
B has a depth of 1

Full binary tree: each node has exactly 0 or 2 children (but never 1).
Complete binary tree: when all levels except the last one are full with nodes.
Perfect binary tree: when all the levels (including the last one) are full of nodes.

The tree is a data structure where a node has 0 or more descendants/children.
Tree nodes don’t have cycles (acyclic). If it has cycles it is a Graph data structure instead.
Trees with 2 children or less are called: Binary Tree
When a Binary Tree is sorted in a way that the left value is less than the parent and the right children is higher, then and only then we have a Binary Search Tree.
You can visit a tree in a pre/post/in-order fashion.
An unbalanced has a time complexity of O(n). 
A balanced has a time complexity of O(log n). 
